docs: Adding payment network documentation (#147)
RequestNetwork/requestNetwork: packages/docs/docs/guides/5-request-client/1-payment-networks.md

---

When a user creates and sends a request, he can expect to receive the correct amount of money. But how does he keep track of the payments due and received? Request is blockchain agnostic, Request is, by itself, a ledger that documents request's information but it doesn't interact directly with any external blockchains.

> There are different methods available for the requester and payer to agree on the payment status, and that is when payment networks come into play. A payment network is a specific context on how to agree on the payment status of a specific request.

Reviewer: `Requester` => `payee`  

We should avoid to introduce synonym to avoid confusion

Reviewer: `A payment network is a specific context` => `A payment network is a set of rules ...`

A payment network is defined by:
* An extension in the Request protocol that defines the necessary information to be able to detect payments
* A payment method, it's the method used to perform a detectable payment

> * A payment detection method, it's the process to determine the amount paid by the payer through the payment method

Reviewer 2: I honestly think this doesn't help understanding a payment network. 
Instead, I would list and explain 
1. types of detection: 
- address based
- proxy contract
- declarative

2. which currencies are supported by which networks

Reviewer: I agree with @benjlevesque, it is too much detailed for this section. 

But it is good explanation tho: this should be kept in another section like "Protocol in depth".

Author: @benjlevesque 
I add a section to explain the current type a Payment Network but I think it's better to give some theory instead of giving examples directly.

@vrolland  "Too much detailed for this section"
This page is precisely created to explain what is a Payment Network, IMO it should be detailed.

For example, the Address-Based Bitcoin payment network, `pn-bitcoin-address-based`, allowing to detect Bitcoin payments through unique Bitcoin addresses created for the request's payments and refunds. For this payment network:
* The Request protocol's extension stores the Bitcoin payment and refund addresses of the request
* The payment method is to perform a simple Bitcoin transfer to the payment or the refund address
* The payment detection method is to read the inbound BTC transfers into the payment Bitcoin address to determine the paid amount and to read the inbound BTC transfers into the refund Bitcoin address to determine refunded amount

Note that these characteristics are almost the same for every address-based payment network.

> For most payment networks, the payment method can be performed by the payer without any interaction with the Request protocol or the Request client.

Reviewer 2: "most" is a bit exagerated. We dissmissed ERC20 address based as a potentially used network, that leaves only BTC and ETH input-data.

Author: No interaction with Request protocol means not having to update the request after doing a transaction. It's the case for all Payment networks except Declarative.
I remove this line, it's a bit too ambiguous

For all payment networks, the Request client can perform the payment detection method to determine the balance of a request.

> Currencies that are supported for automated payment detection are Bitcoin, Ether, and ERC20. If you miss your favorite blockchain, you can either get in touch with the team or **TODO learn how to do it yourself**

Reviewer: "If you miss your favorite blockchain, you can either get in touch with the team or **TODO learn how to do it yourself**" I have written something for this (it's already pushed)

> Currencies that are supported for automated payment detection are Bitcoin, Ether, and ERC20. If you miss your favorite blockchain, you can either get in touch with the team or **TODO learn how to do it yourself**

Reviewer: "Currencies that are supported for automated payment detection are Bitcoin, Ether, and ERC20"
It would be more clear if written as a list so. It will make it easier to spot that a new currency have been added.

## Bitcoin

> Generating a new address for every inbound BTC transfers is already part of the Bitcoin's good practices. Therefore, Request only has one payment network for bitcoin: `pn-bitcoin-address-based`.

Reviewer: Before this. we should explain in one sentence how it works: "1 btc address for 1 request for 1 stakeholder"

## Ether

> Because one Ethereum address is generally used many times to receive and send transactions, we need a way to identify payments for a specific request without having to create a new address. This is why the payment network for ether is based on a reference: `pn-ethereum-input-data`.

Reviewer: We should say first how it works. The why is interesting in "Protocol in depth" but we should keep here very simple.

Author: I removed the second part which was not needed but I think I need a little context to introduce the payment network. This page is used to present the payment network

The reference is a hash defined by the request id and the payment address (to detect payments) or the refund address (to detect refunds). This reference is either inserted into the Ethereum transaction's input data or documented through a *proxy contract*, a smart contract that forwards ether transfers and stores references.

There are two ways to document the reference:
* Insert the reference in the Ethereum transfer input data when sending ethers to the payment address
* Call the `transferWithReference` method of the Ethereum proxy smart contract with the payment address and the reference as parameters

## ERC20

> ERC20 tokens are based on Ethereum and therefore also use Ethereum addresses. Though we provide an address based payment network. 

Reviewer: "Though we provide an address based payment network. "
We should explain how it works.

### Address-based payment network
The payment channel `pn-erc20-address-based` can be used for one-shot address that will only receive payments for a single request.

Before using this payment channel, you then have to make sure you create two addresses: one for the payment (or payments if the request is paid in several parts), and one for the refund.

> ### Proxy-contract payment network

Reviewer 3: Put this one first as it is the most convenient way for most use cases.

This is the most convenient way for most use cases. This method is similar to using the proxy contract with `pn-ethereum-input-data`. Note that the smart contract deployed for ERC20 tokens is different than the one deployed for ether.

## Declarative requests

A request using the declarative payment network allows the payee and the payer to declare the payments and refunds they create and receive.

> In such a request the balance is computed only regarding the declaration made by these two stakeholders.

Reviewer 2: it's actually only the payee's declaration that matters for the balance

Reviewer: This is not true @benjlevesque. A refund received will be declared by the payer!

Reviewer 2: oh yeah right 😁

---

When a user creates and sends a request, he expects to receive the correct amount of money. But how does he keep track of the payments due and received? Request is a ledger that documents requests for payment but doesn't directly interact with any external blockchain where the payment happens. 

There are different methods available for the payee and payer to agree on the payment status, and that is when payment networks come into play. **A payment network is a predefined set of rules on how to agree on the payment status of a specific request.**

A payment network is defined by:
* The information, defined at the request creation, necessary to be able to detect payments

> * A payment method, it's the method used to perform a detectable payment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A payment method, the method used to perform a detectable payment
```

> * A payment detection method, it's the process to determine the amount paid by the payer through the payment method

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A payment detection method, the process to determine the amount paid by the payer through the payment method
```

## Types of payment network

There are currently three types of payment network.

### Address based

> For this payment network, a request contains one payment address and optionally one refund address.

Reviewer 4: I think we should't mention the refund address mixed with the general payment address.
It breaks the flow and makes things a bit more complex to read.
What if we only talked about refund at a line in the end? 
Like:
`Similar to the payment address, in this payment network we can set a refund address that follows the same rules (it also need to be exclusive to the request).`

Reviewer 4: And of course, something similar for the other payment networks.

Author: Good comment, I didn't change for the Declarative description, I think it's better to mix both to better understand this payment network

> For this payment network, a request contains one payment address and eventually one refund address.

Reviewer 2: Optionally, not eventually :)

Outbound transfers are not taken into consideration to compute the request's balance.
The addresses must be created exclusively for the request since every inbound transfer to the addresses are considered as payments or refunds. For example, if a Bitcoin request is created with a payment address that has already received 1 BTC, the request balance will be 1 BTC (considering there is no refund address) even though the payee hasn't received any fund from the payer.

### Reference based

For this payment network, a request contains one payment address and eventually one refund address. These addresses haven't to be exclusive to the request.
The balance is computed by reading transfers to the payment and refund addresses containing a specific reference.
The reference is a number defined by the request id and the payment address (to detect payments) or the refund address (to detect refunds).
There can be different ways to document the reference through the transfer. We currently define two methods that depend on the currency:
* Through input data
* Through a proxy smart contract

> **Input data:**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Input data:
```

In certain cases, when transferring a currency amount, the user has the choice to add additional data to the transaction. For example, Ethereum allows the user to add miscellaneous data named *input data* when performing a simple ether transfer.
In this case, the payment reference is documented here.

> **Proxy smart contract:**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Proxy smart contract:
```

In this case, the reference is documented through a proxy smart contract.
This is a smart contract that forwards a currency transfer and stores a reference.
The currency must be backed by a blockchain with smart contract capabilities.

### Declarative

> For this payment network, the request doesn't specify any additional data. This is the request's stakeholders that declare the payments and refunds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this payment network, the request doesn't require any additional data. The request's stakeholders declare sending and receiving payments and refunds manually. Optionnally, the creator of the request can specify information to describe how the payment should occur, but this data will not be used to detect the payment. 
```

The payee declares the received payments and the payer declares the received refunds. The balance of the request is the sum of declared payments minus the sum of declared refunds.
The payee can also declare the sent refunds and the payer the sent payments. These declarations are used only for documentation purposes and aren't taken into consideration to compute the request balance.

This payment network can be used with every currency.

## Currencies

The currencies that are supported for automated payment detection are
* Bitcoin
* Ether
* ERC20

### Bitcoin

> Request allows to create Bitcoin request with an address based payment network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Bitcoin request requires an address based payment network.
```

> This payment network is sufficient for Bitcoin requests because generating a new address for every inbound BTC transfers is already part of the Bitcoin's good practices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This payment network is sufficient for Bitcoin requests because generating a new address for every inbound BTC transfers is already part of Bitcoin's good practices.
```

### Ether

Because one Ethereum address is generally used many times to receive and send transactions, we need a way to identify payments for a specific request without having to create a new address. Therefore, we use a reference based payment network for ether requests.
*Input data* and *proxy contract* methods can be used to reference the ether transfer. 

### ERC20

ERC20 tokens are based on Ethereum and therefore also use Ethereum addresses.

> We allows to create ERC20 requests with *proxy contract* payment network. *Input data* can't be specified for ERC20 transfers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We allow the creation of ERC20 requests with *proxy contract* payment network. *Input data* can't be specified for ERC20 transfers.
```

Note that the smart contract deployed for ERC20 tokens is different than the one deployed for ether.

We also provide the address based payment network for ERC20 requests but using the proxy contract payment network is the most convenient way for most use cases.

### Other currencies 

> If you don't see a currency you would like to create request with, there is two options:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you would like to create a request with a currency we don't support, you have two options:
```
